Bittoo was a very naughty boy. One day he sat atop a tree with his catapult. Just then, he saw the priest of the village temple passing by. His bald head was shining in the sun. Bittoo could not resist himself, so he took a stone and aimed it at the priest's head. The stone struck the priest's head causing a wound that started bleeding. The priest cried out in pain. He looked around and soon spotted Bittoo on the tree with the catapult in his hand. He called Bittoo down and said, "Your aim is excellent, son. Tomorrow the king will pass this way. You must hit a stone to his head. He will reward you for the excellent aim."


Next day when the king passed by, Bittoo hit a stone on his forehead.


As the king started bleeding, he sent his guards to get Bittoo. The king ordered that Bittoo be whipped a hundred times in public.


Bittoo cried for forgiveness. The king forgave him when he promised not to be naughty anymore.$$
Once upon a time, a student named Rakesh lived in an ashram. Every night he used to jump over the ashram's boundary wall and roam around. H e used to return before dawn. No one knew that Rakesh went out at night.


One night as usual, Rakesh found everyone asleep. He peeped into Guruji's room and saw him sleeping. Then Rakesh crept out towards the wall. He climbed up a ladder he had and jumped over the wall. But actually Guruji was awake and had seen Rakesh going out.


He got up and took away the ladder from the spot. A few hours later, Rakesh returned. In the dark, he tried to climb down from the wall. But Guruji stood where the ladder was. He helped Rakesh to get down and said, "Son, at least take a warm shawl, when you go out at night."


Guruji's gentle manner made Rakesh realize his own folly. He apologised and never went out at night again.$$
Once, a coward lived in a village. Even the smallest sound would scare him. One day the royal messenger announced in the village "The king has asked every young man of the kingdom to join the royal army. It’s an order. Everybody must follow it."


The coward was also forced to follow the royal order. So he too left for the city to join the royal army.


On the way the coward passed by a large and tall tree. Many crows were sitting on it and making a lot of noise. Loud noise of the crows scared the coward. He stopped due to fear. After standing for a few moments, he moved forward to go on but the crows again started to make a noise. Once again, the coward's mouth went dry with fear. He shivered in fright and in shaky voice he cried, "Yes. Go on. Make as much noise as you want to. But I know you still cannot eat me up!"


The coward was so scared that he thought the crows would eat him up. Actually he did not have the ability to join the royal army. A man must do only the task for which he is fit.$$
Once, a villager owned a donkey and a goat. He used the donkey to carry loads of articles from the village to the city where he would roam around the whole day selling his articles. Sometime he could lend his donkey to others on hire when they needed it. As the donkey worked hard the whole day, the villager used to feed the donkey more food than he gave to the goat.


The goat felt jealous of the donkey. He advised the donkey, "You work all day long and hardly get any rest. You must act that you are ill and fall down unconscious. This way, you'1l get rest for a few days." The donkey agreed to this and acted as if he was ill. The villager called the doctor. The doctor said, ''Your donkey has a strange illness. To cure him, you must feed him the soup made of a goat's lungs."


The villager at once killed the goat and cooked soup out of his lungs. Then he fed the soup to the donkey.


The goat had tried to harm the donkey out of jealousy but he had been killed for his evil nature.$$
Aman was a good and obedient boy. His parents loved him very much. But Aman had one bad habit. He ate a lot of sweets and chocolates. His mother always told him, "Arnan, don't eat so many sweets. You will get toothaches."


His mother used to keep all the sweets in a glass jar. It had a narrow mouth and a tight lid on it.


One day when his mother went to the market, Aman saw that his father was asleep. So he tiptoed to the kitchen and got the sweet jar. With great effort, he opened the tight lid and put his hand in the narrow mouth. Arnan picked a fist full of sweets. But when he tried to pull his hand out, it got stuck in the jar.


Aman father was awake and watching. He said to Aman, "You have picked up too many sweets in your fist. It's more than your little hand can keep. Your fist cannot come out of the jar. Let go of the sweets and pick only one sweet in your two fingers and you can pull your hand out easily. Always take as much as you can handle."


Aman pulled out his hand from the jar easily and thus learnt a lesson.$$
One day a poor washer man loaded the clothes on his donkey's back. Then he also sat on the donkey. On the way, some people laughed at him said, "Hey! Look, a fool is riding another fool!"


The washer man replied, "He is no fool, for my donkey is smarter than the king's ministers!"


Soon the washer man’s comment reached the king's ears. He summoned the washer man and asked, "What made you claim that your donkey was so smart?"


"Your Majesty, one day as we crossed a bridge, my donkey's feet were caught in a gap between two slabs of wood on the bridge. Since then, each time when he reaches that spot, he crosses the bridge carefully. But your ministers have been spending money from the royal treasury again and again but have not learnt that they are making a mistake."


At this, the king scolded his ministers and started keeping an eye on their spendings.$$
One day a man went for a walk on the beach. He saw that a ship full of passengers struck a rock and capsized in the sea. The ship went under water and all the people on board fell into the sea. As they did not know how to swim, they drowned one by one. The man watched all this from the shore but could not do anything to help the people.


In the evening, he narrated the sad event of the ship's drowning to his friends. Everyone felt sorry for the dead people. The man said, "God has not been just. To kill one sinner aboard the ship he killed so many other innocent people."


As he was saying this, he felt a pinch on his feet. He looked down. A red ant was biting his toe. Many other red ants were near his feet. In anger, he started stamping his feet to crush the red ants.


God appeared at the spot and said, "See, how you are killing other innocent ants to kill the one which bit you. You were blaming me for my unjust act. Look at your own actions before blaming me for anything."


The man felt ashamed as he realized his mistake.$$
Once, a cat saw a smart young boy. The cat fell in love with him. She wished that she could marry him. But how could a cat marry a boy. So she reached to God, "Please do something to help me marry that boy."


Immediately God turned the cat into a beautiful girl. The boy saw the girl and fell in love with her. He proposed to her and soon they got married.


After all the ceremonies were over, the boy and the girl were alone in their bed chamber. The God decided to test whether the cat which he had turned into a girl has changed her habits or not. So he let a mouse loose in the bed chamber. Soon the girl smelt the mouse and saw it too. She immediately got up and chased the mouse till she caught it.


God was sad at this event. He turned the girl back into a cat and thought, "How could I forget that changing one's body or clothes do not necessarily bring a change in his habits or characters. People stay the way they are.".$$
One night a clever farmer was returning home from a cattle fair. He bought a buffalo from there. As he passed through a dense forest, a dacoit came in front of him. He had a thick stick in his hand. He said, "Hand over all that you have."


The farmer got scared and gave his money to the dacoit. As he turned to go, the dacoit said, "Give me the buffalo too. Why are you taking it away?"


The farmer handed over the buffalo's rope to the dacoit. Then the farmer said, ''You have taken everything of mine. Can you give me your stick?"


"Why do you need it?" the dacoit enquire "My wife will be pleased that at least I got a stick from the fair."


The dacoit gave the stick to the farmer happily. Immediately the clever farmer started beating the dacoit with the stick. The dacoit ran off to save his life leaving the buffalo and the farmer's money behind. So the clever farmer saved himself and his belongings too.$$
Monu was a small boy. He was very naughty, clever and witty. His witty replies amazed everyone. One day Monu's mother sent him to the get some fruits and vegetables. Monu bought some vegetables and then went to a fruit vendor. He bought half a kilogram of pear. But the vendor was dishonest. He was cheating and weighed three fifty grams of pears only. Monu observed this and said, "These are not half kilogram of pears. These appear less."


"No, they are all right and anyway they will be easy for you to carry home."


Monu was clever. He gave money for three fifty grams of pears to the vendor. The vendor said, "I gave you half kilogram of pears. You are giving me less money."


Monu remarked, "No, the amount is correct. Besides they will be easy for you to count and carrying our pocket."


The fruit vendor was amazed at the small boy's words. Clever Monu had given him a befitting reply.$$
Once, Mohit and his younger brother Sumit were alone at home. Suddenly, two men got in to the house and said, "We are your father's friends. We want a blue file he has." Actually they were terrorists.


Mohit's father was a police officer and he had brought a file home. It had information about the dens of notorious terrorists. Mohit knew the file was safe inside the cupboard. But Mohit said, "I had seen the file on the table." As the terrorists searched for the file on the table, Mohit signalled to Sumit. Sumit started crying loudly.


One of them shouted, "Stop crying, you fool!"


Mohit said, "He wants biscuits to eat. They are in kitchen's cupboard. I can't reach it."


Both of them got into the kitchen to get the biscuit. Mohit quickly locked the kitchen door and called his neighbours. Soon the police also reached Mohit's house and arrested both of the terrorists.$$
Once there was a very lazy king. He hardly did any physical activity. As a result he started staying ill. He called the royal doctor and said, "Give medicine to get well. If you don't cure me, I will kill you."


The doctor knew laziness was the main cause of the king's illness. Next day the doctor gave the big dumbbells to him and said, "Your Majesty, you must swing these magic balls in your hands every morning and evening for an hour. Do these till your arms start sweating and you will start getting cured."


The king did this everyday not knowing that it was an exercise. Within a few weeks his body became fit and he felt alert and energetic. He thanked the doctor and asked the cure's secret.


The royal doctor said, "Your Majesty, the magic of this cure will keep you fit till you keep swinging these dumbbells. The day you stop you will became ill again."


The doctor had taught the king to keep fit without offending him.$$
Once, an aged man was going to attend a religious gathering. A young man left his home to go and meet his fiancée. As they went on their way, their paths led them to the same road. They met on the road. Soon, both the travellers began to talk and they became very friendly with each other.


The aged man said to the young one, "Why don't you come with me to attend the religious gathering? You will learn about religious teachings too."


"No, thank you. I think you should come with me to meet my beautiful fiancée. You can also have a grand lunch with us."


But the aged man refused and soon both the friends went on their different ways. But at the religious gathering, the aged man kept thinking of the beautiful woman he could have met. While the young man kept wandering about the religious teachings he could have heard of.


So it's truly said that a person may not change himself but always thinks for the things, the other person possesses.$$
Once, a poor and lonely old man lived in a small village. Many a times, he would say, "I have no family. It would be better if I was dead."


Every morning, he went to the forest. He would cut some trees and gather the woods in a bundle. Then he would sell it in the market. With his earned money, he would eat some food at a small food stall.


Once, he had high fever. But he still went to work because if he would not go, then he would not get the money for food and medicine. As he was carrying back the bundle of woods, he again said, "I have no one to help me. I wish Yamraj takes me away."


Yamraj, the Lord of Death was passing by. He heard the old man's voice. So he appeared before the old man and asked him to accompany him to Heaven with him. But the old man got scared and said,' "Oh! I was only asking for some help." Yamraj helped the old man to carry the bundle and thought with a smile, "He does not believe in doing what he says."$$
Once, a miser priest used to keep teasing people, "Oh! You don't know how to do this task properly. You know nothing about religion and life's philosophies. So your life is worthless."


One day the priest had to cross a river to go to another village. He saw a boat and sat in it. The boatman asked the priest to pay him to row him across. The priest said, "You ask me for money! On the way I will give you the precious treasures of knowledge. Do you know about Tulsi Das and about Ramayana?"


The priest kept boasting but did not want to pay any money. The boatman got fed up of his talks and thought of teaching him a lesson


When the boat was in the middle of the river, the boatman rocked the boat and the priest fell into the river water. He started drowning. The boatmen asked, "Oh! Don't you know how to swim? You seem to know everything else."


Then the kind boatman rescued the priest. Then the priest realized that everyone has knowledge of his own job only.$$
One day a frog left the pond of the village and hopped to a lake in a nearby forest. He went to the forest to make his new home there. When he reached there he did not see anyone around. He wanted to meet everyone and make new friends. So the frog climbed a high rock by the lake and said, "Friends, please come here. I am new here. I want to meet all of you. I have come from the village."


Many animals heard his voice and came to the lake. The deer, the tortoise, the duck, the rabbit, the birds, the squirrel, the butterfly and the fox came there. The frog said, "Let me introduce myself. I am Dr. Croaky. I am a doctor who can cure any ailment that you might be suffering from. I have medicines for all animals’ diseases. You can come to meet me anytime."


Hearing this, the fox said, "If you can cure everyone then why haven't you cured your lame legs? See how you keep hopping around all the time."


All the animals and birds laughed at the frog. The frog went red with shame for his lie had been detected.$$
Once, poor Bhiku went to Bansi Lal's shop. Bansi Lal asked Bhiku, "Why are you standing here like this?"


Bhiku said, "Last night I saw a dream."


“What about the dream?" Bansi Lal smiled.


"I saw that I would get gold here, in front of your shop," Bhiku replied seriously.


Bansi Lal laughed and said, "You fool, dreams never come true. If dreams came true then I tell you what I saw in my dream. In my dream I saw that there is gold underground in your courtyard."


Bhiku rushed back. On the way he kept thinking, "May be dreams do come true." He reached home and started digging in his courtyard. Suddenly his shovel struck a pot. He took out the pot. It was filled with gold coins. Bhiku happily said, "Thanks to Bansi Lal who teased me about my dreams. Now I am no longer a poor man."


Thus it is true that courage and patience can make dreams come true.$$
The lion king was busy appointing various animals at different posts. The cheetah had been made the army commander because he was quick to think and the fastest runner. The wise elephant had been made the prime minister. Time passed by and other animals also got their posts. In the end only the rabbit, the tortoise and the donkey were left.


At this, the animals started laughing. The zebra said, "The rabbit gets scared easily and the tortoise takes hours to move an inch. The donkey is a fool. They cannot get any post in the royal court."


But the lion king said, "No friends! Please don't tease them. All animals have different and unique qualities. The rabbit will be our messenger because he runs fast. The tortoise can hide and spy on the border posts. The loud voice of the donkey can be used as a bugle call. We must learn to respect everyone. "


Thus all the animals of the forest learnt a new lesson that day.$$
Once, there was a poor and old hermit. The villagers used to give him alms everyday. The hermit had the habit of sharing his food with the beggars or needy people.


Once he reached an old woman's house. She was a cruel woman and a miser. On asking for alms, she gave some leftover food to the hermit. The next day the hermit went to her house for food once again. She gave it with a heavy heart. On seeing the hermit on the third day the old woman got irritated. She mixed poison in rice and gave it to him.


The hermit reached his hut and was about to eat. Just then a young man came and said, "I am hungry. Can you feed me something?"


The hermit gave all the rice to him. The young man ate the poisoned rice and to the hermit's surprise he died instantly. The young man was the old woman's son and had returned after a long journey of many days.


So the evil woman's plan resulted in loss of her only son.$$
Mansukh Lal was a hardworking man. Initially he believed in God and attributed his success to God. He became a successful businessman. But gradually as he acquired success, he became very proud. He now thought that his success was due to his hard work. He stopped praising God and even removed God's idol from his house.


Once, during a discussion about God with some people, Mansukh Lal said, "Who is God? It's not due to him, that I am so much successful now. It's all my hard work only. And if actually God is so powerful then he can kill me in five minutes from now. I challenge him."


Five minutes later, Mansukh Lal laughed at God for he was still alive. But an old man got up and said, "If your son asks you to kill him with a gun, will you do that? God is like your father and he'll never harm you."


Mansukh Lal realized his mistake and apologised to God. Now he knew that faith in God is far more important than God himself.$$
Once, a rich and greedy man fell seriously ill. He called many learned doctors to treat him but no one could give him proper medicines to cure his ailment. In desperation, the ill-man prayed to the God, "God, if you save me from death due to this illness, I will sacrifice a hundred bulls at your altar."


God heard his prayers and cured him. Once the rich man regained his health, his greed overcame him. So, to save his money, he had a hundred tiny idols of bulls made and offered them to the temple fire and said, "God please accept my gift of thanks."


God grew angry that the man had broken his promise and had not offered live bulls to him. So God decided to punish him. God appeared in his dream and said, "Go to the seashore in the morning. You will get a hundred gold coins for yourself."


The greedy man went to the seashore next happily. There a ship of pirates had arrived. The pirates imprisoned the greedy man. They went to another country and sold him as a slave. So they got a hundred gold coins for him.$$
One day Golu was passing through a forest at night. As he was walking, a gang of dacoits surrounded him. They had knives and daggers in their hands. They stood around him and then their leader shouted at Golu, "Hand over whatever you have, money, jewellery, everything."


But Golu replied fearlessly, "I won't give you a single rupee. Do what you wish to."


The leader took out a pistol and aimed it at Golu, "You won't listen, will you?"


But strong Golu resisted them. He fought bravely but he was no match to them.


So the dacoits tied him by a rope.


Then they started to search his clothes. They got only a one rupee coin in his pocket and nothing else. Their leader said, "This young man fought and resisted so much just for a single rupee. Wonder what will he do to protect a larger amount! Now remember never to try and loot him if you see him, anywhere in future."


So they freed Golu and let him go.$$
Once, a group of fishermen went out to sea. Their leader was an old, intelligent and wise fisherman. He always guided them well.


At sea the fishermen spread their large net in water. When they pulled out the net, it was empty. This happened about two or three times and the fishermen lost heart, but their leader advised them to keep trying.


Once again, the fishermen threw in the net. It felt heavy when they pulled it out. But some small fish, logs from wreckage and seaweeds were all that it had. They were about to sink the net back into water but the old fisherman said, "Pull out the net and empty it in the boat. Throw the empty net and try once again."


When the fishermen emptied the net in the boat, they found a box in it. It had gold coins and gems in it. The leader divided it equally among all the fishermen and everyone went home happily. It is truly said that one must not leave any work unfinished if one wants to enjoy the fruits of labour.$$
It was summer and there were many instances of power failures. Ramesh wanted to be prepared for this, so he went to a shop. He bought two candles. Each of them cost two rupees. When he gave a ten rupee note, the shopkeeper returned six rupees. There was a five rupee coin and two fifty paisa coins.


At home, there was no light. So Ramesh lit the candle but by chance he dropped a fifty paisa coin in the dark. He looked around but could not find the coin. Slowly the candle burnt to half but Ramesh was still busy looking for the coin. Gradually the candle was burnt out. So Ramesh lit the second candle too and kept looking for the coin. A few minutes later, the second candle was also burnt out and luckily Ramesh recovered the coin.


But to gain the fifty paisa Ramesh had burnt out candles worth four rupees. He wondered if he had gained a coin or lost some money.


We must be careful to take decisions which do not cause us loss in anyway.$$
God created animals. Some animals could run very fast. To some, he gave unusual size and strength. He made some flying creatures and we call the birds. These birds could fly from one place to another in search of food. Some animals became crawlers while others were given the power to become excellent swimmers.


God created man at the end of his creations. He made him strong enough to take care of himself and the animals around him. But man asked God, "God, you have given various powers to other creatures. But I have no special powers or quality like them. Why are you partial to me?"


God smiled and said, "Oh! Man, the power I have given you is the most precious of all. It is the power of speech. You are using this power right now to express your wish to me. No other creature has this power. What more do you want me to give you?"


Man realized that speech was indeed the greatest gift of God to man. He understood that we should be happy with what we have and not be sad for what we do not have.$$
Kanhayya was poor but a generous man. Once he invited three of his friends for lunch. But there was nothing left in his house to cook. So he went out for the arrangement of food.


Sometime later, his friends reached his house. They spotted a grinding stone in his house with a floral necklace placed on it. When they enquired about that, Kanhayya's wife said, "It's your friend's God. He offers him prayers by beating the guests with it."


They heard this and ran out. On the way, Kanhayya saw them running off. He asked his wife as to what had happened. She said, "They asked for the grinding stone. I refused to give it to them so they went away in anger."


Kanhayya picked it up and ran after them to give it to them. When his friends saw him coming with grinding stone, they remembered his wife's words. So they ran very fast and disappeared. From that day no one went to his house for lunch and his wife breathed a sigh of relief.$$
Once, Rahman was sitting outside his hut on a hill watching the beautiful sun set. Just then, he saw something shining at a distance. He exclaimed, "Oh, it's a shiny house. It must be made of gold."


So Rahman rushed towards the golden house. He wanted to reach it as soon as possible. But when he reached the spot, there was no golden house. There was an old hut. The sun's rays had given its walls a golden glow. So Rahman turned to go back up the hill. He looked up and saw a golden house at the top. He shouted, "There is a golden house up there too!"


So he climbed up the hill quickly. He reached the hill to find that golden house to be his own hut. He had thrown some glass pieces on the roof. The glass pieces were catching the sun’s rays and shining. Then Rahman smiled to himself and said, "Oh, it is not gold either. Anyway now I've learnt that all that glitters is not gold."$$
Rima was a beggar girl. One day a lady gave her some saplings and seeds of flower plants instead of alms and said, 'Plant these saplings and seeds. You will gain a hundred times more from them."


Rima did not understand anything but decided to do as the lady had said. She went to her small hut and dug the ground by its side. Then she planted the saplings and sowed the seeds. She watered them well and a few weeks later, flowers bloomed around her hut. One day a few women came to buy the flowers, Rima had grown. So from that day Rima plucked the flowers and sold them door to door. Sometimes, she sold them in the market and on the roads. She was earning her living well and had stopped begging. Soon some people became regular buyers of her flowers. She saved enough money to open a small flower shop in the market and man people went to Rima flower collection.


Rima thanked the lady who had led her to get green gold.