Let us enjoy reading this one of Jataka Tales of The Doe Sets Her Husband Free .

Once upon a time there was a fine stag who ruled a herd of deers in a forest and it had a beautiful wife. The doe was very devoted to her husband and helped him in all matters of life.

One day, the stag was caught in the trap of a hunter and the doe was very frightened as was the stag. All the friends of the stag left him.

But the doe remained steadfast next to him and waited for the hunter to come. She was very devoted to her husband. As soon as the hunter came, she fell on his knees and begged, "Sir! Please make a nice bed of leaves for me and my husband and then kill me first and then my husband and you can have a nice feast."

The hunter was so amazed and surprised by her love that he went to first free the stag before he prepared the bed of leaves, and in a split second, the stag and the doe ran after being free.

Moral: Great love can achieve anything.$$
Let us enjoy reading this one of Jataka Tales of The Greedy Crow.

Once upon a time there was a fine pigeon who used to live on a nest close to a kitchen. The cooks of the kitchen used to like her very much and often used to feed her grain. She liked the place and her life was fine.

One day a crow saw the pigeon and saw how it was getting wonderful food from the kitchen. Then one day she made friendship with the pigeon, and under the pretext of friendship, she somehow made the pigeon to share the nest with the crow.

The pigeon then told her that they could spend time together discussing politics, religion etc but when it came to food both had their own ways.

So she suggested the crow to search for her own food.

But the crow was impatient and the very reason she had made friends with the pigeon was for the food. The crow wanted meat and all the pigeon got was grains from the kitchen.

It could not wait any longer and ultimately decided that she visit the kitchen directly for the food.

Thinking so, it stealthily crept down the chimney into the kitchen. She got the smell of a fish being curried on the pan. She got greedy and went ahead and tried to get the fish. But in the process she disturbed a ladle, and created a noise. This alerted the cook who was in the neighboring room and he caught hold of the crow and killed it.

Moral: Greed Numbs intelligence.$$
Let us enjoy reading this one of Jataka Tales of The Jackal Saved Lion.

Once upon a time there was a lion in a jungle. Once when he had gone to drink water in a stream, his feet got stuck into the wet slushy mud of the stream and he could not get out. He had to lie without food for days like that as he saw no help coming by.

One day, a kind jackal came by and the jackal dug a way out from the sand and with the extra force from the lion helped him get out of the slush and set him free.

The lion was grateful for this and thanked the jackal for the saving of his life. He then offered the jackal to live close to him and also promised to feed him whenever he caught food.

So the jackal started living with the lion and they shared the hunt.

Soon they expanded their families and had cubs and kid jackals.

After a long time, the lioness, lady of the lion's house, grew tired of the friendship of the jackal and her master. She did not know that only the jackal saved lion. She conveyed the message to her cubs who conveyed the message to the jackal kids who complained to the lady jackal. The lady jackal told of this to her husband. The jackal went to the lion, and told him that if he did not want the jackal to stay with him, he should have told him long time back.

The lion was surprised at this and assured the jackal that no such ill-feelings existed between the lion and the jackal and assured him that he would talk to the lioness.

But the wise jackal then said, "Friend, I know you are sincere. But our families may not exactly reciprocate the same level of friendship. So let us stay apart, and meet often as friends and even may go for killing together. But it is better if our family stays apart from yours."

The lion agreed to this and the two families parted as friends and the jackal and the lion were still close friends and used to go for kills together.

Moral: Don’t expect your family to reciprocate the same level of friendship you have with someone.