Let us enjoy reading this one of Modern Stories of An Old lady and The Lamp .

Once upon a time there lived a beautiful old lady in a small hamlet.

When the sun set the old lady lighted a lamp.

The lamp felt very proud of itself that it was the brightest object in the universe.

One cold windy night the lamp was blown off. It started crying.

Then the old lady told the lamp not to be haughty.

She again lighted the lamp. Thereafter, it was quite humble and behaved well.

Moral: Don’t be vain.$$
Let us enjoy reading this one of Modern Stories of Christopher’s encounter with The Aliens .

It was a dark and stormy night. The whole of Greentown was covered by dark clouds. Christopher was returning home. It started raining cats and dogs.

Suddenly he saw a U.F.O. appearing from the clouds above. In no time it landed on the road. Three aliens came out. Chris was astonished as he could understand their language. Their plan was to take all the trees away from earth. Not wasting a moment, Chris called his friends. Those aliens pointed out to a tree. An eerie blue light shot out from their hands making a tree vanish. Soon, Chris’s friends arrived. They tried to scare those aliens by throwing stones, but in vain.

Luckily, Mr. Goon, the fat inspector of the area arrived. With a frightened look on his face, he shot at those aliens. One of them pointed his finger at Mr. Goon. To everyone’s amazement, Mr. Goon became as thin as a stick. Everybody laughed. Suddenly, Anna, Chris’s friend, ran towards them, shouting at the top of her shrill voice. Those aliens got the fright of their lives and vanished along with their spaceship. The kids were delighted. They had saved their planet. Mr. Goon was left fiddling with his pants.$$
Let us enjoy reading this one of Modern Stories of Count The Blessings, Not The Curses .

A boy used to cry for new costly shoes.

His father was a worker in a factory and he had a meager salary. He bought cheap shoes but the boy was disappointed.

He cried a lot and left the house. He sat near a bus stop.

He wondered when he would get the expensive pair. Just then a beggar passed by on his crutches. The boy was shocked to find that the beggar had no legs. He got enlightened. At least he had legs. He thanked god for giving him legs and mother and father who were so caring.$$
Let us enjoy reading this one of Modern Stories of The Mule.

Once upon a time there was a farmer.

He had a mule. That mule was old and of no use. One day that mule fell in the well.

The former decided to bury that mule in the well. With the help of his neighbors, he started putting sand in the well. At first that mule was angry but then he shook off sand from his back and stepped up and up on the layer of sand.

After a long time he reached the top of the well and was out of it.$$
Let us enjoy reading this one of Modern Stories of The Three Sons of The King.

Once there lived a king called Ralph. He had three sons.

The first son was Sam. The second was John and the third was Eric.

The king in his death bed wanted to test his three sons He asked them to assemble the next day in the court.

The king said that he was in his death bed and wanted to test them. He asked them to fill the entire room with something and whoever does completely will become the king, he said.

The first son brought diamonds which filled half the room. The second son filled the room with cotton but it was not sufficient. The third kept a lamp in the middle of the room. It spread light in the whole room.

The king appreciated Eric and decided that he will be the king.

The two sons were ashamed of themselves as their younger brother defeated them.

Then, the king died and Eric became the king.
