Let us enjoy reading this story of A Wise Counting.
Emperor Akbar was in the habit of putting riddles and puzzles to his courtiers. He often asked questions which were strange and witty. It took much wisdom to answer these questions.
Once he asked a very strange question. The courtiers were dumb folded by his question.
Akbar glanced at his courtiers. As he looked, one by one the heads began to hang low in search of an answer. It was at this moment that Birbal entered the courtyard. Birbal who knew the nature of the emperor quickly grasped the situation and asked, "May I know the question so that I can try for an answer".
Akbar said, "How many crows are there in this city?"
Without even a moment's thought, Birbal replied "There are fifty thousand five hundred and eighty nine crows, my lord".
"How can you be so sure?" asked Akbar.
Birbal said, "Make you men count, My lord. If you find more crows it means some have come to visit their relatives here. If you find less number of crows it means some have gone to visit their relatives elsewhere".
Akbar was pleased very much by Birbal's wit.$$
There was an old owl that lived in an oak. Everyday he saw incidents happening around him. Yesterday he saw a boy helping an old man to carry a heavy basket. Today he saw a girl shouting at her mother. The more he saw the less he spoke.
As he spoke less, he heard more. He heard people talking and telling stories. He heard a woman saying that an elephant jumped over a fence. He also heard a man saying that he had never made a mistake.
The old owl had seen and heard about what happened to people. Some became better and some became worse. But the old owl had become wiser each and every day.$$
One afternoon, a little boy had lost his kitten. He looked under his bed. He looked all over his house. But still there was no puppy. Finally, he looked for his puppy in the garden. After a few hours, he still could not find the puppy.
The little boy was tired and was about to give up. Then he saw his neighbour, Mrs Hardin.
“I beg your pardon, Mrs Hardin. Is my puppy in your garden?" asked the little boy.
“Oh yes, she is. She is chewing on a mutton bone," replied Mrs Hardin.
The little boy climbed the fence and saw his puppy chewing on a mutton bone. He was so happy that his puppy was not lost but had only gone to his good neighbor’s house to eat.$$
There lived a black sheep in a nearby village. Every spring, he shaved his black wool and sold it to the villagers. The villagers made sweaters and socks from his black wool.
One day, the black sheep noticed that he had some more wool left. He thought, ‘It would be such a waste if nobody wants to buy the wool.’
That afternoon, an old man came over to his wooden shed to see him. He wanted one bag full of the black sheep’s wool. Then an old woman came over. She also wanted a bag full of wool. A short while later, a little boy arrived. He also wanted one bag full of wool.
Therefore, the black sheep prepared three bags full of wool for them. He was happy that all of his wool was sold off.$$
There was a grocery shop in a town. Plenty of mice lived in that grocery shop. Food was in plenty for them. They ate everything and spoiled all the bags. They also wasted the bread, biscuits and fruits of the shop.
The grocer got really worried. So, he thought "I should buy a cat and let it stay at the grocery. Only then I can save my things."
He bought a nice, big fat cat and let him stay there. The cat had a nice time hunting the mice and killing them. The mice could not move freely now. They were afraid that anytime the cat would eat them up.
The mice wanted to do something. They held a meeting and all of them tweeted "We must get rid of the cat. Can someone give a suggestion"?
All the mice sat and brooded. A smart looking mouse stood up and said, "The cat moves softly. That is the problem. If we can tie a bell around her neck, then things will be fine. We can know the movements of the cat".
“Yes, that is answer," stated all the mice. An old mouse slowly stood up and asked, "Who would tie the bell?" After some moments there was no one there to answer this question.$$
There lived many mice in a grocer’s shop. They ate plenty of grains and the grocer suffered heavy loss. So, he brought a fat cat to catch the mice. The mice were worried. They held a meeting to drive away the cat.
A smart-looking mouse suggested that the cat moved softly and swiftly. They decided to tie a bell round its neck. So that when the cat moves, the mice would become aware of the cat. All the mice agreed to this decision.
The old mouse said, “Can you tell me who is to bell the cat?"
There was no reply.
Their decision is not yet executed.$$
One day, Betty Botter wanted to bake a cake. She bought some cheap butter to bake it. But something was wrong with the butter.
“This butter is bitter," said Betty Botter as she tasted the butter.
“If I put it in my cake batter, it will make the batter bitter. But if I put a bit of better butter that would make my batter better."
So, she went off to buy a better butter than her bitter butter. She mixed a bit of better butter into her cake batter. She tasted the batter and was happy that the batter was not bitter.
She adopted the best way to solve the problem. Because there will be always one.$$
One fine morning, a hunter was getting ready to go hunting. Before departing, he went to see his little baby. His baby was awake in a baby crib. He looked at his baby’s blanket and thought the blanket might not be thick enough for the coming winter.
“Bye, my little baby. Daddy is going hunting. Daddy is going to fetch some rabbit skin to make you a new blanket," said the hunter to his baby.
He kissed his baby and went off hunting. After the hunting, he bought a blanket which saved his child from the sever winter that followed.$$
In a small town in England, there lived a poor little girl. Her friend invited her to come to her birthday party. She was so excited. But her right shoe was spoilt. She needed to get it mended quickly. So, she went to see a cobbler in her little town.
“Cobbler, cobbler," called the girl. “Please mend my shoe."
“When do you want it done, little girl?" asked the cobbler.
“Get it done by half-past two. Then I will give you half a crown," said the girl. The cobbler smiled and quickly mended her shoe.
The cobbler finished repairing her shoe before half-past two. The little girl was so happy. Now, she could go to her friend's birthday party.$$
Georgie Porgie was a cheeky little boy. He liked to tease people especially little girls.
One afternoon, he went to the park near his house. He found a little girl and tried to kiss her. The girl cried and sobbed because she did not like Georgie.
Then, some boys came to the park and saw Georgie chasing after the girl. They shouted and laughed loudly at Georgie. Georgie stopped chasing the girl and ran away feeling embarrassed. Thereafter Georgie hesitated to play with his friends because he remembered his embarrassment that he faced in front of his friends. This incident prohibited him from chasing girls thereafter.$$
Once upon a time, there was a peaceful kingdom. The king heard rumors that barbarians were going to attack his castle soon. So he called his two favorite pets - the huge grey goose and gander.
“My dear goose and gander, our kingdom is in danger. Take my daughter to a safe place on top of the tallest hill," said the king. So the grey goose and gander flew the princess who sat in a red sheet over the one-strand river to the top of the tallest hill.
Six months had passed but the kingdom was not attacked. The king regretted his decision and told the grey goose and gander to bring home his daughter. Then the king understood that he had to be careful before taking actions based up the rumors which need not be true. The king was aware of his discretion before taking any decision.$$
Once upon a time in a fairy tale land a cat and a dog were friends. One night, the cat invited the dog for a party at his house.
The cat played the fiddle. The dog happily clapped his hands. Suddenly, they saw a cow flying in the sky. It jumped over the moon. The dog laughed. Just then, they saw a dish and a spoon from the party running away together. And they laughed even louder. After that they became the best friends.$$
Devan was a clever thief. He robbed the rich and gave all to the sick and the needy. The other thieves were jealous of him. They planned to get rid of him. They challenged to steal the King’s Pyjamas.
Deven accepted the challenge. After that he prepared to execute the new challenge. He charted out a plan to steal the King. He prepared himself mentally to carry out a plan.
He went to the King’s Palace. He found the King sleeping. He opened a bottle of red ants on the bed. The King was badly bitten. He cried for help. The servants rushed in. They pretended to look for ants. Deven removed the King’s Pyjamas and escaped. Other thieves were dump founded.
They accepted Deven their leader.$$
In a faraway land, there was a rooster who lived with his master and the wife. Every early morning, the rooster would make a very loud sound. This shocked his master and the wife so much that they jumped up from their sleep.
One day, the rooster heard that his master and the wife wanted to slaughter him for dinner. He was afraid. He wanted to run away. But before he went off, he quickly took one of the wife’s shoes and the master’s fiddling stick. Then he ran off into the forest feeling happy and satisfied.$$
One night, there was a little baby who was still not asleep. His mother already tried rocking the baby to sleep but he was still wide awake. So, his mother took him to the window to see the stars.
The stars shone on the sea. The mother told the baby some stories about the stars. She said that there were two little stars that played peek-a-boo with two little fishes in the deep blue sea. And there were two little frogs that cried ‘Neap, neap, neap. We also see a dear little baby who should be asleep!’
The baby was happy and delighted. Soon, the little baby grew sleepy and fell asleep in his mother’s arms.$$
There was a little boy called John. He was very playful. He played hard at the playground and was exhausted when he got home. His father told him to get undressed and ready for a bath. The little boy nodded and went straight to his room.
His father was waiting for John at the bathroom but he never came. His father went to John’s room. He saw that John was already asleep in his bed fully clothed. And one shoe was off but one shoe was still on his right foot.
His father took off John’s shoe and his trousers. He dressed him in his pyjamas and left him to sleep.$$
Dick was an actor. He was brilliant. He had a strange character. He insisted on realism. He was a head ache to his manager. A drama was played.
The first was drinking scene. Water was provided in a cup. Dick insisted on liquor. The manager had brought a bottle of liquor.
The second scene was a fighting scene. He insisted on real swords. Steel swords were provided.
The third scene was the one in which the hero was drinking poison. The manager had real poison. The actor was in fix.
He realised his mistakes. He realised the importance of practicality in life. He promised to be sensible in future.$$
Once upon a time, there was a very useful little pussy cat. The pussy cat killed all the mice in the farmer’s barn.
One day, a little boy called Johnny Green wanted to play with the pussy cat. Johnny played rough. He even tried to drown the pussy cat in a well. The pussy cat was terrified. It cried for help.
A little boy called Tommy Stout was walking near the well. He heard the pussy cat's cry from inside the well. He went to the well and quickly pulled the pussy cat out. The pussy cat was very happy.$$
One afternoon, Mrs. Darby was having tea with her friend, Mrs Smith. On the table, there were two cups of tea and some muffins.
“Mmm, this muffin is delicious. Did you bake them yourself?" asked Mrs Smith.
“No. Actually I bought them from the muffin man," replied Mrs Darby.
“The muffin man?" asked Mrs Smith.
“Yes, the muffin man who lives in Drury Lane," said Mrs Darby.
“Oh yes, I know that muffin man," said Mrs Smith knowingly.$$
There was a little boy called John. He was very playful. He played hard at the playground and was exhausted when he got home. His father told him to get undressed and ready for a bath. The little boy nodded and went straight to his room.
His father was waiting for John at the bathroom but he never came. His father went to John’s room. He saw that John was already asleep in his bed fully clothed. And one shoe was off but one shoe was still on his right foot.
His father took off John’s shoe and his trousers. He dressed him in his pyjamas and left him to sleep.$$
Once upon a time, there was a very useful little pussy cat. The pussy cat killed all the mice in the farmer’s barn.
One day, a little boy called Johnny Green wanted to play with the pussy cat. Johnny played rough. He even tried to drown the pussy cat in a well. The pussy cat was terrified. It cried for help.
A little boy called Tommy Stout was walking near the well. He heard the pussy cat's cry from inside the well. He went to the well and quickly pulled the pussy cat out. The pussy cat was very happy.$$
There was a little boy who just celebrated his birthday. His parents bought him a puppy as a birthday present. The puppy had very long ears.
One evening, he was playing with his puppy. The puppy was happily jumping about and wagging his tail. Then the little boy tried to tie the puppy’s ears into a knot. The puppy stopped wagging his tail.
The little boy then tried to tie the puppy’s ears into a bow. The boy chuckled but the puppy became quiet.
“Can you throw your ears over your shoulders like a regimental soldier?" asked the boy. The puppy put his head on the ground and whimpered. The little boy laughed and hugged the puppy. The puppy wagged his tail happily.$$
One day, Dr. Foster wanted to go to Gloucester to do his work. It had been raining since morning and had not stopped. But he still went there nonetheless.
Once he finished his work, he set off home immediately. But it was still raining. The road was wet and slippery. Dr. Foster walked quickly.
Suddenly, he stepped into a puddle full of water and sank up to his waist. He was scared and wet all over. He was so frustrated with his bad luck that he promised never to go to Gloucester again.$$
Georgie Porgie was a cheeky little boy. He liked to tease people especially little girls.
One afternoon, he went to the park near his house. He found a little girl and tried to kiss her. The girl cried and sobbed because she did not like Georgie.
Then, some boys came to the park and saw Georgie chasing after the girl. They shouted and laughed loudly at Georgie. Georgie stopped chasing the girl and ran away feeling embarrassed. Thereafter Georgie hesitated to play with his friends because he remembered his embarrassment that he faced in front of his friends. This incident prohibited him from chasing girls thereafter.$$
Once upon a time, there was a peaceful kingdom. The king heard rumors that barbarians were going to attack his castle soon. So he called his two favorite pets - the huge grey goose and gander.
“My dear goose and gander, our kingdom is in danger. Take my daughter to a safe place on top of the tallest hill," said the king. So the grey goose and gander flew the princess who sat in a red sheet over the one-strand river to the top of the tallest hill.
Six months had passed but the kingdom was not attacked. The king regretted his decision and told the grey goose and gander to bring home his daughter. Then the king understood that he had to be careful before taking actions based up the rumors which need not be true. The king was aware of his discretion before taking any decision.$$
Once upon a time in a fairy tale land a cat and a dog were friends. One night, the cat invited the dog for a party at his house.
The cat played the fiddle. The dog happily clapped his hands. Suddenly, they saw a cow flying in the sky. It jumped over the moon. The dog laughed. Just then, they saw a dish and a spoon from the party running away together. And they laughed even louder. After that they became the best friends.$$
A woman had a pet mongoose. It was very faithful. One day she went to the market, leaving her baby in the care of the mongoose.
At that time a big cobra entered the house. The mongoose killed it after a long and fierce fight.
When the woman came back she saw the mongoose lying at the entrance. She noticed its blood-covered mouth.
In her haste the woman thought that the mongoose had killed her baby. In a moment of sudden fury, the woman threw the water pot on the mongoose and killed it.
Alas! When she entered the house she was filled with remorse. Her baby was playing cheerfully.
Nearby a big cobra lay dead. The woman shed tears of grief fondling the carcass of the mongoose.$$
One day, there was a mouse that was very afraid. A big cat was chasing him. The mouse was running as fast as he could to save his life. The mouse saw a big grandfather clock. It climbed up the clock. It reached the top and sat down to rest.
Not long after that, the clock struck one, ‘Dong!’ The mouse had such a shock that he ran down the clock.$$
A milkman became very wealthy through dishonest means. He had to cross a river daily to reach the city where his customers lived. He mixed the water of the river generously with the milk that he sold for a good profit. One day he went around collecting the dues in order to celebrate the wedding of his son. With the large amount thus collected he purchased plenty of rich clothes and glittering gold ornaments. But while crossing the river the boat capsized and all his costly purchases were swallowed by the river. The milk vendor was speechless with grief. At that time he heard a voice that came from the river, “Do not weep. What you have lost is only the illicit gains you earned through cheating your customers.$$
It was a dry summer. The animals in the forest were beginning to find it difficult to get food.
A bear, a wolf and a jackal thought it would be better to join hands with a lion and do the hunting. They approached lion and he too agreed. The four of them went off hunting.
The hunting party came across a buffalo. The fox and wolf chased the buffalo. The bear intercepted the buffalo. The lion killed him.
The fox made shares out of the buffalo. When they were about to take their shares the lion roared and said, "Well friends, the first share is mine for my leadership. The second share is mine for, it is I who killed. The third share is also mine for I need it for my cubs. Anyone who needs a share can take the fourth. But before that you will have to win me."
All the three left the place without a single word.$$
Once, a fox was very thirsty.
He saw a big well nearby and peeped into it.
The fox slipped and fell into the well.
He tried to come out.
But he could not do so.
After some time, there came a goat who was also thirsty.
He too peeped into the well.
The fox saw the goat and said from inside the well, “The water is very sweet. Come and Come to enjoy."
The foolish goat also jumped into the well.
The clever fox climbed on the back of the goat and jumped out of the well.$$
In a faraway land, there was a rooster who lived with his master and the wife. Every early morning, the rooster would make a very loud cook-a-doodle-doo sound. This shocked his master and the wife so much that they jumped up from their sleep.
One day, the rooster heard that his master and the wife wanted to slaughter him for dinner. He was afraid. He wanted to run away. But before he went off, he quickly took one of the wife’s shoes and the master’s fiddling stick. Then he ran off into the forest feeling happy and satisfied.$$
One night, there was a little baby who was still not asleep. His mother already tried rocking the baby to sleep but he was still wide awake. So, his mother took him to the window to see the stars.
The stars shone on the sea. The mother told the baby some stories about the stars. She said that there were two little stars that played peek-a-boo with two little fishes in the deep blue sea. And there were two little frogs that cried ‘Neap, neap, neap. We also see a dear little baby who should be asleep!’
The baby was happy and delighted. Soon, the little baby grew sleepy and fell asleep in his mother’s arms.$$
There was a little boy called John. He was very playful. He played hard at the playground and was exhausted when he got home. His father told him to get undressed and ready for a bath. The little boy nodded and went straight to his room.
His father was waiting for John at the bathroom but he never came. His father went to John’s room. He saw that John was already asleep in his bed fully clothed. And one shoe was off but one shoe was still on his right foot.
His father took off John’s shoe and his trousers. He dressed him in his pyjamas and left him to sleep.$$
The manager of a firm advertised for a night watchman.
All the applicants were present. But the manager was not satisfied.
He found something wrong with each man.
There was Raju, an applicant.
He was sitting in a corner waiting for his turn of interview.
Manager found nothing wrong in his appearance.
He questioned about his health.
He got the reply that he was suffering from sleeplessness.
Manager was happy and appointed him.$$
Two little boys were playing together. One little boy saw a nut on the ground. Before he could pick it the other boy took it.
The first boy demanded, "Give me the nut. It's mine. I only saw it first".
The other boy replied, "It's mine. I only took it".
This lead to a quarrel between these two little boys. Just then a tall boy came that way. Upon seeing the quarrel between the boys, he said, "Give me the nut and I'll settle your quarrel".
He split the nut into two parts. He took out the fruit-seed. He gave one half-shell to one boy and the other half-shell to the other. He put the fruit seed into his mouth and said, "This is for settling your quarrel".$$
Gorelal was a famous sculptor. His sculptures looked real ones. One day he saw a dream that after fifteen days, the demon of Death would come to take him. Gorelal prepared nine statues of himself and when on the 15th day he heard the Demon of Death coming, he took his place between the statues. The Demon could not recognise him and was astonished to see ten Gorelals instead of one. He rushed back to the God of death and told the matter. The God of death got annoyed and set out to take Gorelal himself. Gorelal was alert and stood motionless. The God of Death initially got perplexed. But he thought for a moment. He said, “Gorelal, these sculptures would have been perfect but for one mistake." Gorelal was unable to suffer the least blemish in his work. He came out and asked, "Where is the fault?" God of Death caught him and said, “HERE". The statues were faultless but Gorelal was caught because of his pride.$$
Sheba, the queen of jungle, was very fond of babies. Once, she announced, "I order all animals to come to my palace with their babies. The animal who has the most beautiful baby will be awarded a prize".
All animals came to Sheba's palace with their babies.
Sheba started inspecting the babies one by one. She came to a monkey and said "What an ugly baby! You will not get the prize".
The baby monkey started to cry. The monkey said, "What a foolish queen she is! Who wants her prize! You are my jewel, my dear child. You are more precious than anything under the sky".$$
There lived a little girl Mariam who was very silly and lazy. Often she used to wander hither and thither with no purpose. Once, as she went wandering she felt very thirsty. She went to a pond nearby and quenched her thirst. She felt very tired and drowsy. She slept right there on the banks of the pond.
When she woke up it was night already. She peeped into the pond but could not see her reflection. She got a big doubt, “Am I really here or not? Well! Let me ask at my home".
She went home and found the door closed. She called out "Is Mariam in there?" A sleepy voice replied, “Oh! She must be in bed". Mariam thought, “If Mariam is at home, I am not Mariam". Saying this, she went away.

