There was an unusually hot summer prevailing in South India and Sage Agastya went to mount Kailas to ask Lord Shiva for water. Kaveri happened to be worshipping Shiva at that time.
Shiva picked her up and put her in Agastya's kamandalu.
The sage thanked his benefactor and set out for home.
Indra did not approve of what Shiva had done and requested Ganpati to somehow overturn Agastya's kamandalu.
Ganpati took the form of a crow and when Agastya kept the vessel down swooped down, and sat on its rim. The vessel overturned and Kaveri flowed out.
Agastya was very angry but calmed down when Ganpati revealed his true form.
Ganpati refilled Agastya's kamandalu, but Kaveri flowed on and continues to flow to this day.$$
Balder was the god of light in Norse mythology. He was the son of the chief god, Odin, and the goddess Frigg.
Balder was loved by all except the wicked Loki, who, jealous of his popularity, plotted his death.
Balder's mother had made all things—living and non-living—swear an oath that they would never harm her son. So there was no weapon that could hurt him.
Nevertheless, Loki cast about for a way to destroy Balder. One day he learnt that there was one plant, the mistletoe that had not sworn the oath to Frigg.
He obtained a slender branch of the tree, sharpened one of its ends, and hastened to the great hall where the gods were feasting. They were entertaining themselves by good-naturedly flinging rocks and spears at Balder, knowing full well that nothing could harm him.
Green MissileLoki stole up to the blind god Hoder who also happened to be Balder's brother and asked him why he was not hurling things at Balder like the others.
"I cannot see," said the god.
"Throw this," said Loki, thrusting the weapon he had made, into his hands. "I'll guide you."
Hoder flung the sharpened branch.
It pierced Balder, and he fell down dead.
Loki did not go unpunished. The gods chained him to rocks in a deep cavern. There, he awaits his release. For according to Norse mythology he will eventually break free and take his revenge on the deities who had attempted to bind him for eternity.$$
Ravana once went to challenge Surya, the Sun-God, to a fight. When he reached the Solar Region he saw that the sun was about to rise and sent an envoy to inform Surya of his arrival and the reason for his coming.
"Tell him," he instructed his envoy, "that he should either stay and fight or accept defeat."
Surya had begun his ascent into the sky when the envoy reached the gates of his palace.
One of the gatekeepers, Dandi, shouted out Ravana's message to his master.
Surya shrugged and continued rising.
"Tell Ravana," he said, "that I've no time to spare."
Ravana went away shouting that he had defeated the Sun.$$
Eos, Goddess of Dawn fell in love with a youth named Tithonius, and the two spent many happy years together. But while Eos being a goddess retained her youth, Tithonius began to age. He asked his beloved to grant him immortality. She couldn’t do it on her own so she pleaded his case with Zeus, the supreme deity.
Zeus reluctantly granted the boon.
The story unfortunately does not have a happy ending. Tithonius had forgotten to ask for eternal youth. So though he could not die he could age. As his age advanced he became wrinkled and hunchbacked and revoltingly ugly. He pleaded with Eos to help him.
She could not take back the gift of immortality nor could she give him back his youth. But she could change his form. She turned him into a grasshopper.
