Long ago, the Lion was the only animal with a tail. One day he decided that all animals should have a tail like him and got tails made for all the animals in his kingdom.
When the tails were ready he summoned all his subjects to his cave palace so that he could hand out the appendages.
All the animals went except the dassie. The dassie felt too lazy to go and asked a monkey going by to fetch his tail for him.
The Lion had selected a small furry tail for the dassie. When the monkey explained that the dassie could not come and had asked him to bring the tail, the Lion gave it to him.
The monkey had been given a nice long tail but as he was going home it occurred to him that the tail would look better if it were a bit furry towards the end. So he attached the dassie's tail to it.The Tailless Dassie
The dassie was very disappointed when he learnt that the monkey had kept his tail for himself.
But he was too lazy to pursue the monkey to try to get his tail back and that is why he remains tailless to this day.$$
There lived a man in the state of Qi who loved gold above everything else. Nothing else could excite him as much as the sight of gold.
One day while passing a jeweler’s shop he saw a man handling a bar of gold. He rushed in, grabbed the gold and ran.
But he was soon caught.
"Why did you steal the gold in front of so many people?" asked the judge.
"Your worship," said the man, "when I saw the gold I became blind to everything else. I did not see the people around."$$
A young man was working in the family garden when his older brother called out to him to come in and have lunch.
“Wait a minute!" shouted the younger brother. “I’ll hide the spade and come!"
When he came in, his brother scolded him for his indiscretion.
“Did you have to shout like that for the whole world to hear?" He said, testily. “What is meant only for my ears should be heard by me alone!"
After lunch the young man went back to the garden to continue his work, but returned almost immediately.
“I have something to tell you," he whispered to his brother, “Somebody has stolen the spade!"$$
Thousands of years ago, the Jade Emperor of China organized a race for animals. The first 12 animals to finish were to be given a place in the Chinese Zodiac, and have a year named after them.
The cat and the rat, both late-risers asked the ox to wake them at dawn on the day of the race.
Came the day. The ox tried to wake the cat and the rat, but without success. They would open their eyes, turn to the other side and go back to sleep. The race was about to start. Unwilling to leave them, the ox coaxed them onto his back and started running. The rat woke up just as the ox was crossing the last hurdle, a river. The sly rat knew that he could never beat the cat in the race. He took the chance fate offered him and pushed the cat off the ox’s back. When the ox reached the other side, the rat jumped off and scampered to victory, just ahead of the ox. The tiger came third, but he cheated. He crossed the river by using the backs of the animals swimming across as stepping stones, leaping from one to another.
So the 12-year cycle of the Chinese Zodiac begins with the rat. After him comes the ox who is followed by the tiger. After them come the rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, goat, monkey, rooster, dog and pig, in that order. The cat, it must be noted, has no place in the zodiac. She wasn’t among the first twelve. In fact she was lucky to finish, having almost drowned in the river.
So is it any wonder that cats chase rats? They can never forget the humiliation heaped on their ancestor by a tricky rodent!
